# Pairs-Trading-Strategy
Unsupervised Learning final project
Pairs Trading
The primary goal in an investment endeavor is the implementation of strategies that minimize the risk while also maximizing the financial gain or return from the said investment. While there have been many popular strategies and techniques developed over the years that point towards the same goal, the 'Pairs-Trading' strategy is one that has been used to great extent in modern hedge-funds, for its simplicity and inherent market-neutral qualities. This strategy, often termed a statistical-arbitrage, relies on monitoring the correlation between a pair of stocks (known to be correlated). A long position is opened on the stock that rises and a short position is opened on the stock that falls. The underlying assumption in pairs-trading is that pairs of stocks, that have historically shown similarities in their behavior will eventually converge in the long run, even if they diverge in the short term, allowing the trader to profit off the pair regardless of the market.

In such a strategy, identification of correlated stocks and generation of pairs is of paramount importance. In this project, we employ unsupervised learning techniques that include Density-Based Spatial Cluster of Applications with Noise and K-Means Algorithm. Once, the relevant pairs have been identified, their price relations are extrapolated using supervised learning techniques such as Linear Regression. This overall methodology will help provide insight into the relations between various stocks and facilitate the generation of appropriate trading strategies for them.
